README.md, before:

# arduino-usb-tester

arduino-usb-tester is (the beginning of) a collection of Arduino firmware implementing different USB gadgets.
Its main purpose is testing USB stacks and software.
It can also be used to capture protocol data with access to real devices.

_Note: I'm using an Arduino Uno rev. 3 I had laying around; LUFA parameters and the DFU target will need to be adjusted if a different board is used._


## A primer of Arduino Uno firmware flashing

### LUFA

### Adjusting LUFA parameters and building the firmware

### Physically entering DFU mode

Entering DFU mode requires resetting the 8u2 or 16u2 chip by shorting the reset and ground pins.

![Uno DFU reset](https://www.arduino.cc/en/uploads/Hacking/Uno-front-DFU-reset.png)

For more information, check the official hacking tutorial on Arduino.cc: [Updating the Atmega8U2 and 16U2 on an Uno or Mega2560 using DFU](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Hacking/DFUProgramming8U2).

### Flashing stock or custom firmware

To flash a new firmware to an Uno in DFU mode, stock or custom, use [dfu-programmer](https://dfu-programmer.github.io):

```
# physically set the Uno to enter DFU mode

sudo dfu-programmer atmega16u2 erase
sudo dfu-programmer atmega16u2 flash <firmware file>

# physically reconnect the Uno
```


## h115i-emulatinum

Dumb emulation of a H115i Platinum for development of Linux/macOS drivers.

Related: [liquidctl#76](https://github.com/jonasmalacofilho/liquidctl/issues/76) ("Support for Corsair H115i Platinum").


## arduino-keyboard

Archived Arduino Keyboard firmware by Darran, and corresponding blog posts.

Fetched from the Wayback Machine:

 - [Arduino UNO Keyboard HID part 2](https://web.archive.org/web/20130215045104/http://hunt.net.nz/users/darran/weblog/faf5e/Arduino_UNO_Keyboard_HID_part_2.html)
 - [Arduino UNO Keyboard HID version 0.3](https://web.archive.org/web/20120127004113/http://hunt.net.nz/users/darran/weblog/b3029/Arduino_UNO_Keyboard_HID_version_03.html)


## uno-rev3-backup

Backup dump of the factory firmware from my Uno rev. 3.  Not useful as is, but could just a conversion to the correct hex format.

Regardless, it is probably better to just use [Arduino-usbserial-atmega16u2-Uno-Rev3.hex](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-avr/blob/master/firmwares/atmegaxxu2/arduino-usbserial/Arduino-usbserial-atmega16u2-Uno-Rev3.hex).

Commit message:

docs: Add link LUFA and instructions for building firmware based on it

README.md, after:

# arduino-usb-tester

arduino-usb-tester is (the beginning of) a collection of Arduino firmware implementing different USB gadgets.
Its main purpose is testing USB stacks and software, but it can also be used to capture protocol data with access to real devices.

_Note: I'm using an Arduino Uno rev. 3 I had laying around; LUFA parameters and the DFU target will need to be adjusted if a different board is used._


## A primer of Arduino Uno firmware flashing

### LUFA

The firmware in this repository is built on top of [LUFA](https://github.com/abcminiuser/lufa), the Lightweight USB Framework for AVRs.

### Adjusting LUFA parameters and building the firmware

When building LUFA examples or code based on them (like the code in this repository) it is necessary to adjust the makefile to match the chip and board being targeted.  For example, the following variables should be set when building firmware for the Uno rev. 3:

```
MCU          = atmega16u2
ARCH         = AVR8
BOARD        = UNO
F_CPU        = 16000000
F_USB        = $(F_CPU)
```

Building the firmware should be fairly straightforward:

```
make clean
make
```

For more information, try `make help`.

### Physically entering DFU mode

Entering DFU mode requires resetting the 8u2 or 16u2 chip by shorting the reset and ground pins.

![Uno DFU reset](https://www.arduino.cc/en/uploads/Hacking/Uno-front-DFU-reset.png)

For more information, check the official hacking tutorial on Arduino.cc: [Updating the Atmega8U2 and 16U2 on an Uno or Mega2560 using DFU](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Hacking/DFUProgramming8U2).

### Flashing stock or custom firmware

To flash a new firmware to an Uno in DFU mode, stock or custom, use [dfu-programmer](https://dfu-programmer.github.io):

```
# physically set the Uno to enter DFU mode

sudo dfu-programmer atmega16u2 erase
sudo dfu-programmer atmega16u2 flash <firmware file>

# physically reconnect the Uno
```


## h115i-emulatinum

Dumb emulation of a H115i Platinum for development of Linux/macOS drivers.

Related: [liquidctl#76](https://github.com/jonasmalacofilho/liquidctl/issues/76) ("Support for Corsair H115i Platinum").


## arduino-keyboard

Archived Arduino Keyboard firmware by Darran, and corresponding blog posts.

Fetched from the Wayback Machine:

 - [Arduino UNO Keyboard HID part 2](https://web.archive.org/web/20130215045104/http://hunt.net.nz/users/darran/weblog/faf5e/Arduino_UNO_Keyboard_HID_part_2.html)
 - [Arduino UNO Keyboard HID version 0.3](https://web.archive.org/web/20120127004113/http://hunt.net.nz/users/darran/weblog/b3029/Arduino_UNO_Keyboard_HID_version_03.html)


## uno-rev3-backup

Backup dump of the factory firmware from my Uno rev. 3.  Not useful as is, but could just a conversion to the correct hex format.

Regardless, it is probably better to just use [Arduino-usbserial-atmega16u2-Uno-Rev3.hex](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-avr/blob/master/firmwares/atmegaxxu2/arduino-usbserial/Arduino-usbserial-atmega16u2-Uno-Rev3.hex).
